---
layout: post
title: 'insights from first journey on oct 13'
date: '2017-10-15T10:59:00-04:00'
tags:
- evolutionary leadership
- journey
- heart medicine
--- 

friday night i joined my first journey led by g. there were like 14 of us from the three different el cohorts. we experienced a relatively low-level (3/4) heart medicine. i was pretty low level nervous heading into it, but the week beforehand things started to settle for me. i knew i'd be with good people, i knew i'd be guided by good leadership, and i know many people have done things like this before. still, i was worried if i'd have an adverse reaction or something. 

but in the end, the experience was AMAZING. 

i went in with two strong intentions (and a third that i always forget): 

1. to figure out what to do about the white supremacy situation at my current job and my role in changing it

1. to think through my racial attraction issue. i'm mostly attracted to white men and rarely attracted to men of color, and that doesn't really make sense with my values or worldview. 

here are all the things i learned or experienced: 

* quote from g: 

> the difference between nonprofit space and movement space is that movement space also holds children and elders. 

integration: i need to find a way to spend more time in movement spaces than i do in nonprofit ones.

* quote from g: 

> meditation is rooted in being. but there is another side to that coin: becoming. 

integration: becoming is rooted in practice and change and transformation. the universe is both and therefore, liberation will, too.

* quote from g:

> we are each other's medicine

integration: we can and should heal each other. 

* quote from g:

> medicine work has been in our people's history forever. it, like many things has been stole and co-opted by whiteness and maleness. journey work with people of color is simply reclaiming what was ours all along. 

integration: don't be afraid of medicine work but remember that context in which it happens matters. 

* experience: (long) healing conversation with yulissa about her fear of detaching from her parents. first conversation after "arriving" in the journey space.

integration: i can see answers and hold healing space. 

* experience: multi-hour healing conversation with e. holding each other, we talked through many of his years of growing up without access to the queer side of his identity. we spoke about both the trauma and harm of not being able to be himself in his community and (the more painful part to experience for me) missed opportunities and experiences he has simply never had. i helped him cross a threshold (kissing a man) and also felt a level of pain that i've never experienced before. i held it (my hand on his heart) and he released some of the pain into my arm but helped me to see how to not let it enter my chest and heart. i have never writhed in hurt like that but it happened as he spoke to his pain and i think (know?) that was part of his release. it was a reality-bending experience. he said i helped him cross a threshold and that felt amazing. difficult but amazing. 

integration: not totally sure, but i know i learned that i can hold more healing space than i previously though. but i also learned that i *can* hold an intimate connection with a man of color. 

* experience: conversation with kendra about white supremacy work situation at c.l. with a.b. she gave me so much wisdom. in order for the org to actually move towards its goals, she can't be in power in that way that she is. supremacy is an escalator. if you're just standing still on it, it's moving. if you're walking against it at its pace, you're still just staying in the same place. in order to combat and dismantle it, you have to move at double-speed against it. that's the key. everyone, all the time, has to be moving double-speed against it.

integration: i can hold the conversation with a.b. that may lead to her choosing to leave her position of power herself. 

---

overall integration to take into life: my capacity to heal and hold healing is bigger than i thought it was. i need to step into that for real. 

feeling so grateful for this community and excited for even more journey work in the future. 

<!-- hyperlink bank -->

**words / writing / post-processing**  
XXXw / XXmin / XXmin